---
layout: post
title: Cobbler 3.0.1 Migration
author: Enno
summary: Migration guide to Cobbler 3.0.1
---

With Cobbler 3.0.1 we have a slightly changed syntax of the cobbler modules. This results in a new syntax for the
`modules.conf`-file. I have written a small migration script for the purpose of this. I did not set-up automated tests
for this but instead went for careful manual testing.

The script needs to be packaged and executed by package maintainers on a system-package upgrade or manually by you.
If the script is not executed then cobbler will have uncontrolled behavior and a lot of stacktraces about not finding
modules.

If you use the upgrade-script there is no backup of your old `modules.conf` made. Please do this yourself!

If the packager for your system did not include the script you can find it under
[Github/cobbler/cobbler/...](https://github.com/cobbler/cobbler/blob/master/scripts/settings-migration-v1-to-v2.sh)

The usage of the script is like the following:

{% highlight bash %}
settings-migration-v1-to-v2.sh [-h] [-r] [-s] [-n] [-f absolute_filepath]
Script to migrate a Cobbler 3.0.0 or prior "modules.conf" to a 3.0.1 "modules.conf"

Usage:
   One of the following arguments must be choosen [rsn] additionally you must hand over the absolute path of
   the "modules.conf"

Options:
  -h  show this help text
  -r  Use the regex replace. I recommend this if you have custom modules and also have rearranged them.
      WARNING: This also alters the documentation in the settings file which is wrong to the current point in time.
  -s  Use the static replace. I recomment this if you use the default modules.
  -n  Make a new start with Cobbler and just replace the whole settings file.
  -f  Path to the "modules.conf"
{% endhighlight %}

Example: `./settings-migration-v1-to-v2.sh -f "/etc/cobbler/modules.conf" -s`